# autoconfig

this program is used to set up an arbitrary software project after its deployment.
frankly it is part of the deployment process and should take over after successfully
copying all project code to the appropriate location.

the currently supported software is [vufind2][1]

## installation

this package is not part of the public npm-registry. its published to the private registry
of the university library of leipzig. use this registry as follows:

    npm --registry https://docker.ub.intern.uni-leipzig.de/npm install -g autoconfig

it is recommended to install it as superuser, but it is advised to be run as non-root
though.

## run

the program is invoked by

    autoconfig

for help see the commandline help i.e.

    autoconfig help

## autoconfig vufind2

to set up a vufind2 instance it has to follow some rules (although i tried to make it
as flexible as possible)

    autoconfig help vufind2

will give an overview of all possible config params

### `--basedir`

will set the folder where the vufind2-folder is located.

by default the folder `/usr/local/vufind2/` is used

### `--instance`

will set which instance is deployed. this is really just the name of the folder,
where autoconfig saves all new config files in and which you have to set as
VUFIND_LOCAL_DIR environment variable in apache2 so vufind2 will use it as config folder

### `--configs`

specifies the folder where the configuration template is located which shall be set up.
the filename has to be the name of the site prefixed by the extension `.json`

by default the folder `${HOME}/.autoconfig` is used

### `--write`

if this parameter is present the configuration file is written whether its present or not.
this can be useful to create a default configuration to built on or to change configuration
parameters through specifying _autoconfig_-parameters, see below

### `--force`

if present, an existing database, but not accessable by the configured dbuser will be reused
by creating a new dbuser as configured and grant him all required rights to access the existing
database. any existing users having access to that database will be untouched.

### `--drop`

if present, an existing database will be dropped, a user deleted and a brand new
database created. an appropriate user will be created as well.

### `--db-server`

the specified value will be set as host that runs the db server

### `--db-client`

the specified value will be set as host which the db server sees the db client as.

this is not necessarily your vufind-client`s hostname but the ip - or hostname which
the db-server resolves to that ip - which the client uses to connect to the db-server

### `--solr-url`

the specified value will be set as the url to the solr-index

### `--ai-url`

the specified value will be set as the url to the article-index

### `--url`

the specified value will be set as site-url/<site name> in config.ini

## Example

lets say we want to set up the site **foo**. the **staging** folder of this site is named
alike and is located in `/var/lib/vufind2/`, the database-server and the ai-index url to use
are the same for each site, the solr-url is different, so we specify that by adjusting
the site's configuration later.

the configurations do not exist, but we want to create them whilest processing.
we would to so as following:

    autoconfig vufind2 \
      -i staging \
      -b /var/lib/vufind2 \
      --url https://staging.vufind2.example.com/foo
      --db-server mysql.example.com \
      --db-client staging.vufind2.example.com \
      --ai-url ai.vufind2.example.com/biblio \
      foo

_autoconfig_ now looks for all configuration files within `/var/lib/vufind2/foo/foo/config/vufind/`
 and and language files within `/var/lib/vufind2/foo/foo/languages/`.

 Config files which ends to `.ini` are considered do be inheritable and therefore _autoconfig_
 creates new files in `/var/lib/vufind2/foo/foo/staging/config/vufind/` with the same name
 and a parent-config setting as vufind2 supports it, which inherits the related config-file.

 The next step is to create a database according to the specified credentials. since there
 are none specified (which is for now only possible by providing a configuration template,
 see `configs`) _autoconfig_ creates a dbuser `vufind2_foo`, a database `vufind2_foo` and
 a random password. To be able to do so the user that runs _autoconfig_ needs a `.my.cnf` in
 its home folder that specifys the sufficient credentials to log into the server, create
 databases and users.

 now _autoconfig_ writes the autogenerated database credentials, the specified ai-url and
 some default values in the *staging* config files.

 because there is no configuration template for this site yet _autoconfig_ creates one and
 writes all configuration values as json-object. the file looks like that

    {
      "DAIA.ini": {},
      "FincILS.ini": {},
      "HierarchyDefault.ini": {},
      "SolrAI.ini": {},
      "config.ini": {
        "Database": {
          "database": "mysql://vufind2_foo:U57jeRyw8mT7Vl9v@mysql.example.com/vufind2_foo"
        },
        "Index": {
          "url": "http://172.18.113.250:8080/solr"
        },
        "Authentication": {
          "ils_encryption_key": "gef36739fc553b9c41e802g4c440eb0bba1cd326"
        },
        "Site": {
          "url": "https://staging.vufind2.example.com/foo"
        }
      },
      "facets.ini": {},
      "searches.ini": {
        "IndexShards": {
          "ai": "ai.vufind2.example.com/biblio"
        },
        "ShardPreferences": {
          "showCheckboxes": true
        }
      }
    }

you can also see some configuration which is not defined by parameters at commandline.
these are default values which appear to be required or useful.

to change the configuration of the site simply edit the template and do another

   autoconfig vufind2 \
      -i staging \
      -b /var/lib/vufind2 \
      foo

since all configuration is now provided by the site template we do not need to provide
configuration values by commandline parameters. **in fact all configuration values from
the site's configuration template have precedence of the commandline parameters.
if you want autoconfig to take the values from commandline parameters you have to delete them
from the configuration template first.**


## Todo

* support for yaml format
* overwriting configuration template when commandline parameters are provided
* tests
* make it more generic usable

[1]: [http://vufind-org.github.io/vufind/]
